Source: arXiv
ArXiv ID: 2209.05469v3
Title: Optimizing resource efficiencies for scalable full-stack quantum computers
Query: Quantum Computing
---
In the race to build scalable quantum computers, minimizing the resource consumption of their full stack to achieve a target performance becomes crucial. It mandates a synergy of fundamental physics and engineering: the former for the microscopic aspects of computing performance, and the latter for the macroscopic resource consumption. For this we propose a holistic methodology dubbed Metric-Noise-Resource (MNR) able to quantify and optimize all aspects of the full-stack quantum computer, bringing together concepts from quantum physics (e.g., noise on the qubits), quantum information (e.g., computing architecture and type of error correction), and enabling technologies (e.g., cryogenics, control electronics, and wiring). This holistic approach allows us to define and study resource efficiencies as ratios between performance and resource cost. As a proof of concept, we use MNR to minimize the power consumption of a full-stack quantum computer, performing noisy or fault-tolerant computing with a target performance for the task of interest. Comparing this with a classical processor performing the same task, we identify a quantum energy advantage in regimes of parameters distinct from the commonly considered quantum computational advantage. This provides a previously overlooked practical argument for building quantum computers. While our illustration uses highly idealized parameters inspired by superconducting qubits with concatenated error correction, the methodology is universal -- it applies to other qubits and error-correcting codes -- and provides experimenters with guidelines to build energy-efficient quantum processors. In some regimes of high energy consumption, it can reduce this consumption by orders of magnitudes. Overall, our methodology lays the theoretical foundation for resource-efficient quantum technologies.
